smaller towns to be from farming or ranching
families, some wealthy, some not. And so there
was, so that dichotomy was there too, I think. Were
y'all, you were proud to be a part of the
transition. Did you hear anybody complaining
about A&M going to the dogs or this being, did most
people think this was progress, these changes?
Most people did. However, we would
talk of an old ag someplace who just thought that
the presence of women on campus had just made
everything go to hell. We knew there were those
voices out there. We didn't pay much attention to
them. And y'all learned Aggie jokes. Oh, yes. All
that. Oh, yeah. And how soon did you and your
transition friends, meaning part of a
transition, how soon before you all felt Aggie
pride? First day we were there. Did you ever think
about transferring? Not for a heartbeat. I
couldn't imagine if gone. That never crossed my
mind. What about the people around you in the
dorms? They were there. They were committed. They
were there for the duration. And there was a good
survival rate academically? Yes. Yes. As far as
you knew, were the admission requirements about
in order then? Were they about appropriate for A&M
standards? I think so. If you... Anybody that
really wanted to go there pretty much got in, I
think, from... that was not selective at all.
Trivia for you. Before the Aspirations Report,
one of the things we recommended was to start
moving the admission requirements up. The
official admission requirements until 1963 or 4
other than being white and male, you had to have a
diploma. Nothing about grades, courses, class
rank, scores or anything. No felony convictions
and no communicable diseases. That's all it was.
So, obviously, we had a high flunk rate because
there were people that couldn't make it. And what I
want to ask all the experts today who say, we need to
do this, that, okay, how many people can this
institution best serve? What should be the
appropriate number? We've got far, far, far more
than that applying. Yes. Then on what basis do we
select who gets to be here? When I ran into that in
Missouri and I had our registrar, I said, have the
machine print out for us What did a student need
here in combination of high school record and test
score, ACT and SAT, to have a high likelihood of a
two-point at the end of the first? And what we
found, top quarter of both all the test scores and
high school, if you're not in the top quarter of
both, only on probation, unless you went to one of
the very, very, very, very, very selective prep
schools in Kansas City or St. Louis. Like if we were
in the second quarter, Kincaid. Yes, yes. That
makes a big difference. Yeah, or Country Day or a
place like that. And that's a tough one, a tough one
for this here. What were the attitudes about the
point of view, the philosophy of these students,
your colleagues and their families? What,
liberal, conservative? I would say fairly
conservative. I remember the Carter Ford
election. happened when I was on campus. And if
there was anybody on campus that supported Jimmy
Carter, I don't remember who it was. I
remember everybody was in favor of Ford, whether
you were a Republican or not. So it was pretty
conservative, no anti-war sentiment,
patriotic, ambitious. Kids wanted to go to
graduate school, kids wanted to go to
professional school. The women of my core group of
kids four or five women that I've remained close
to. I'm a physician. One's an attorney. One is a
retailer in New York City. One is a high school
teacher. One is an entrepreneur. None of us had
kids right out of college. Only one married right
out of college. We definitely were not there for
our MRS degrees. And, you know, have really all
been very successful. A couple of the women never
had kids. So it was... Were there any majors that
you and your closest friends kind of looked down
on? Yeah, the wildlife fisheries majors, some of
the ag majors. were like, well, okay, yeah. Do your
thing and that's fine, but. In the term, in the
meaning of the term diversity as we now use it, how
diverse was the student body then? It wasn't
diverse at all. The, you know, there were white
students and black athletes. You know, Fred
McClure was a real. What about Hispanic?
Hardly any. International students? A few, but
they were mostly graduate students. Jewish? Not
many. But those that were here, did anybody think
less of them? I don't think so. Religion
was not a big issue at that point in time. Were there
religious activities that you and your friends
participated in? Not really. I went to church a
couple of times. And this is from someone who had
been to church every Sunday and very active in
church youth activities, but I just didn't have
room for that when I was at school. I know there was a
Catholic student union. I think there was a
Methodist, a Baptist student fellowship. But
they were not real active and real big at that point
in time. I know of no denomination nationally.
We're Presbyterian. I know of no denomination
nationally And I don't know any institution
nationally that is doing religious activities
for undergraduates well. Yeah, TCU doesn't. No,
no, no. TCU, we have a real hard time with that. And
we're right across the street from campus and have
a formal affiliation, and we still don't do it
well. I know, but there are probably more Baptist
students at TCU than the same. Probably. I know at
Austin College, Presbyterians are third in the
number. Now, there were no international...
events that stirred you and your, no Pearl
Harbors, no D-days, nothing like this. Mm-mm,
mm-mm. Nothing that caused you to lie awake at
night? Well, it was Watergate, and it was Nixon's
resignation.
But we seemed so distant from that, because nobody
had TVs in their rooms, and if you wanted to watch
TV, you watched in one of the TV rooms down in the
Commons. And they tended to be crowded, and they
were dark, and... I didn't spend a lot of time in the
TV rooms. We got our news from The Bat. What did
y'all think of The Bat? The Bat, everybody read it,
but we thought that they were a bunch of wild-eyed
liberal media freaks, and they had long hair, and
they were kind of the hippies on campus. They
raised the GPA for transferring into journalism
two weeks ago, they raised it to 2.2.
But I remember that was the first time I ever used a
word processor, was when I ran for vice president
for student services the spring of my sophomore
year, or rules and regulations, vice president
for rules and regulations for student
government. I got a vote of no confidence from the
bat. I didn't have anybody running against me, but
I got a vote of no confidence just because I... I'd
been a secretary and stuff like that, and they
really didn't know who I was. I remember how mad I
was. There was a guy, Scott Sherman, I can't
remember what his name was, who was a reporter for
The Bat, but I also knew from student government,
and I wanted to write a rebuttal. He says, we'll
print that, sure. He says, really, it would be
easiest if you just came down to wherever they
wrote The Bat and and just go ahead and type it in
yourself. And I typed a mile a minute. So I went and
he taught me how to use a word processor to write my
rebuttal, which they did print, and I won the
election.
Were you and your friends aware of any secret
fraternities? No, not at all. You never heard of
them? Mm-mm, mm-mm. official sororities and
fraternities came to campus the year I was a
freshman. What did y'all think of that idea?
Horrible. We thought it was just a disgrace to the
A&M tradition. And I can remember, because a bunch
of my friends who had gone to other schools, TCU,
were all Chi Omegas, and I remember I got a call from
someone asking me if I would be one of the charter
members of the Chi Omega chapter on campus. And I
thought, well, why in the hell would I want to do
something stupid like that? It really didn't want
any part of it. And the men and the women that were in
sororities and fraternities, there were very few
of them. Invariably, they were big city, big high
school, upper middle class kinds of kids, and they
were pariahs. They really were. Did you know we now
have a higher percentage per capita of fraternity
and sorority members than UT does? Yes. Isn't that
fascinating? Last year, three of the core Yale
leaders, in other words, there were core members
and Yale leaders, were in fraternities. Yeah. I
remember telling somebody the other day that
there were guys in the core in fraternities, and
they just blew them away. I didn't realize any Yale
leaders had been, but secret societies, no.
Apparently, they still exist. TTs, True Texans,
and then this one will stun you. It goes back to the
teens. Sterling Evans was a member. The Stickers,
full name Schwa Stickers. long before the Nazi
Party discovered the Navajo and Hindu, I didn't
know, both in India and in the United States for
the, that was a good luck symbol. And it was a
welcoming symbol. And apparently the purpose of
both groups is very simple, to get their members
elected to the key positions, used to be core
commanders. Who were the most, what were the most
respected student leadership positions? Corps
commander, president of the student body. Which
of those would have had the highest? Corps
commander. Really? Okay. Yeah, even then. Yeah.
What about MSC council chairman or president? Not
nearly as high. Okay. Not nearly as high. What
about band commander? Up there, but not at the top.
Did you all respect the band? Oh, yes. You didn't
make fun of them? Oh, sure we did. Oh, okay. Yeah,
they were BQs. But it was a good nature? It was a good
nature. We really admired them, but we loved to
give them a hard time for being kind of nerdy. If a
girl had a choice between a guy who was in the corps
or not, was there any status difference? A little
bit. You know, we... The women like us that were
boot chasers got teased and made fun of, but
there was some status to going out with,
especially an upperclassman in the Corps. And did
your co-eds use Aggie slang? like boot chasers.
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Did you all adopt any of the food
lingo from the dining hall? Some of it. Not the more
descriptive terms, but... Did you ever at home get
in trouble for slipping and using an Aggie slang
term at home? I never got in trouble, but probably
the first time I, you know, piss hit or court hurt or
something like that, I... I was like, what did you
just say? Because, you know, being TCU people,
they really weren't familiar with any of that. And
I kind of explained to them, that's what they're
called. They were like, well, okay, we can live
with that. It's getting close to 15 minutes. Yeah,
a few more minutes. Yeah, let's keep talking. Oh,
okay. And you don't remember ever hearing any real
anti-female put-downs. Women were welcome. A
few. You know, there were probably some
upperclassmen perhaps in the Corps that were so
diehard old army kind of guys that, but, you know, I
think most of the men appreciated having some
women on campus finally. Where did a, where did a
co-ed turn for special advice? To her friends.
Because there wasn't a dean of women. Were you
acquainted with John Coldis? Yes. What did you all
think of him? Oh, we adored him. We just worshipped
the ground he walked on. One of the best there ever
was. And he would, and I didn't realize it until he
told me last weekend when I saw him at John David
Crowe's retirement party. that he'd really only
been there a year before I came. And, but he was the
most nurturing, supportive man. We all just
adored him. You know, and if you got the, he had
these Tuesday night dinners in the MSC where he
would have some student leaders come. If you got to
do that, you were just, that was one of the most
prestigious things on campus that you got to do. I
was on the search committee and I was stunned that
we were considering a guy from East Texas. No, he
nationally. And then another one that nationally
is among the best there ever was is Bob Walker.
Yeah. See, Bob has turned down the same job at
Michigan. Really? And at Berkeley. Those aren't
good time ones. See, those are really, really
tough. I remember Bob from when I was a freshman
because he was very, you know, he was a wonderful
mentor. They kind of adopted all the president's
scholars because there really weren't that many
of us back then. And I remember him from day one just
being so supportive. But Coldus was just such a
sweetheart. I remember when I was in medical
school, coming back to take my national boards in
between second and third year, I house sat for
them. They let me stay in their house. They were out
of town, and so I got to stay there when I took my
boards. You know, just things like that that make
so much difference in a student's life. See, as a
sideline watcher, I worry. He and Ray Bowen are
classmates. And with Ray retiring, I don't think
Bob plans to ever retire. I hope not. Because he's
so good. Well, I hope not. Gee, who is there? Jack
Kenny Williams. Describe him as you students
thought of him. Everybody
liked him. He was popular. He always had that smile
on his face. As women, we felt that he bridged the
old A&M, new A&M thing well. And I personally felt
like he walked that tightrope pretty well. I
remember He was not... I don't remember being real
close to students like Coldis or Stark or somebody
like that, but everybody was very fond of him. He
was a very popular president. But I do remember
when we did Godspell that spring, we did it in the
theater. We didn't do it in the auditorium. And he
was there, front and center, for one of the first
performances. And I remember there was one scene
where... the kids go out in the audience and talk to
the cast members during a song, and one of the more
voluptuous women went and sat in his lap and sang to
him, and he just got the biggest kick out of it. And I
remember how delighted we all were that he was such
a good sport about it. So many students nicknamed
him Smiling Jack. Oh, yeah, Smiling Jack. And I
know from these interviews that the board, then
board of directors, they weren't regents yet,
guess how they knew to go look for him? Because Earl
Rutter told Ford All Britain and John Lindsay,
they were flying Chicago in 1968. My source of this
is Ford. And he said, I looked at Mr. Rutter and
said, Earl, you really got A&M moving now. God help
us if it were to happen. But if something happened
to you, do you have somebody He said, Rudder put his
glass down and said, no, I don't. And I learned in
Europe that the CO may go down in battle. And I got to
do that. Albritton said, we stopped it. Then that
night at supper, brought it back up. And he said,
Mr. Rutter said, I've been thinking about it since
you asked me. If something were ever to happen to
me, you go to the University of Tennessee system,
get their number two man, name is Jack Kenny
Williams, first commissioner of higher
education in Texas, organize the coordinating
board. But before he came to Texas, where he was
highly regarded, He started off teaching
southern history, as I did, at a separate land
grant school in a southern state which was all
male, compulsory military, racially
segregated, had a corps of cadets, and they made
the changes at Clemson so that he would understand
A&M well. And he said then when Earl died, Ford
said, I was a new board member. All I had to do was
tell my colleagues, this is what. This is what he
wanted, yeah. And so he said, we went and hired him
on the spot. Wow. No presidential search, no
search firm, no committee, no. Have you all
selected a firm yet, a search firm? I don't know if
the committee has selected a firm yet or not. Not
that I've heard of. Bill Funk in Dallas is the best
there is. Well, we worked with him with the
chancellor search. I've known him for a little
more than 15 years and he's good. Yeah, I was
impressed when I spoke with him because they were
in the middle of that when I first came on the board
and Bill kind of helped me get up to speed with the
chancellor search. Back to Williams, were you as a
student aware of his heart attack? of his illness
in 76? Yeah, yeah. It was downplayed, but
everybody realized that something had happened.
And see, the campus physician, whose name neither
of us can remember for certain, is the one who saved
his life at the house. So the helicopter could take
him to Houston. And then DeBakey did some
marvelous things. But when Williams died, I think
he was 68. three or four, the oldest surviving male
in the family tree history. All William's males
die. Let's quit there. Okay. Let's quit there.